# Rewarding for a "A" while hoping for "B"

* YOu cannot measure for A and hope you get B, you get what you measure.

# Measuring Social Code
- Who's leveraging your code ?
- Who's code are you leveraging ?

* You use social measure to get social behaviour

## Devops Metric
Devops is about continous improvement, that means you must know where you are coming from in other to know you are going the right direction
- A basline prodives concrete number for comparison as you implement your DevOps changes.

- Metric goals allow you to reason about these numbers and hjudge the success of your progress.

**Choose one goal at a time**

* Old school measures MTTF(Mean Time To Failure), DevOps is focused on MTTR(Mean Time To Recovery); A whole new way of thinking about availability

## Vanity Metrics vs. Actionable Metrics
Beware of vanity metric:
*"WE had 10,00 hits to our website"*
- Now what? (what does that represent)
- What actions drove those visitors to you?
- Which actions to take next?

* You want Actionable Metrics instead
- A/B testing for experiment
- Reduce time to market for nw feature
- Increase overall availablity of the product
- Reduce the time to deploy a release
- Increase the percentage of defects detectesd before production; Reduce production level defect
- Effeciently use the resources you have

## Top 4 Actionable Metric
- Mean Lead Time: How long to get an idea into feature
- Release Frequency: how soon do you release features
- Change failure rate; the rate of failure from pushing new releases out.
- MTTR( Mean Time To Recovery): How long it takes to recover from a failure.

## Measure Culture
- Open to information
- Blemeless Culture
- Shared Responsility
- Encourage and reward cross-functional collaboration
- inquire failure; continous improvement
- Welcome Ideas